                                                         2023 9th International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems (ICSSS) 
 
  
A Deep Evaluation of Digital Image based Bone 
Cancer Prediction using Modified Machine 
Learning Strategy 
 
Dr Tapas Bapu B R 
Professor 
Department of ECE 
S.A.Engineering College 
Chennai - 77. 
tapasbapusaec@gmail.com 
 
Vidhyaharni. J 
Department of ECE 
S.A.Engineering College 
Chennai - 77. 
2114052@saec.ac.in 
 
 
Sangamithra. R 
Department of ECE 
S.A.Engineering College 
Chennai - 77. 
2114043@saec.ac.in 
 
Thynas Sharmi. J 
Department of ECE 
S.A.Engineering College 
Chennai - 77. 
2114050@saec.ac.in 
 
 
Vinothini. S 
Department of ECE 
S.A.Engineering College 
Chennai - 77. 
2114055@saec.ac.in 
 
 
Sabitha. C 
Department of ECE 
S.A.Engineering College 
Chennai - 77. 
2114038@saec.ac.in 
Abstract—Every single person, regardless of their age or 
stage in life, is at risk of developing the fatal disease known as 
cancer. There is a greater likelihood that cancer will affect 
more than one-third of the population at some point 
throughout their lifespan. In particular, bone cancer is a 
significant cause for concern in terms of health since it 
frequently leads to the patient's passing away. By examining 
the pictures obtained from X-ray, MRI, or CT scans, it is 
possible to identify the presence of bone cancer. The manual 
process requires a significant amount of effort and time-
consuming expertise, and it also requires specific knowledge. 
As a result, the development of an automated method to 
differentiate between healthy bone and bone that has advanced 
cancer is of the utmost importance. The texture of malignant 
bone in the affected region is distinct from that of healthy bone 
in that portion of the body. It is important to note that the 
sample contains a number of images that exhibit 
morphological characteristics that are characteristic of both 
malignant and healthy bone. The early identification of this 
malignancy, including bone cancer, may be accomplished with 
the highest possible degree of precision through the use of 
medical imaging correlation in conjunction with image 
processing and machine learning techniques. This study 
proposes a strategy for identifying bone cancer by utilizing 
data acquired from actual clinical trials. The method is 
comprised of a number of phases that have the potential to 
increase the accuracy of disease prediction. The proposed 
model is designed based on Modified Machine Learning 
Strategy, called Elevated Learning based Bone Cancer 
Prediction (ELBCP), in which it evaluates the input image and 
predicts the bone cancer with high precision as well as the 
model is cross-validated with the conventional learning based 
classification model called Support Vector Machine (SVM) to 
prove the efficiency and performance of the proposed scheme. 
 
Keywords— Digital Image Processing, Bone Cancer, Disease 
Prediction, Modified Machine Learning, Elevated Learning 
 
       979-8-3503-8420-8/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE 
 
based Bone Cancer Prediction, ELBCP, Support Vector 
Machine, SVM 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
There are 206 bones in a human body. The body's muscles 
attach to bones, which in turn sustain the motions [1]. 
Fibrous tissue loaded with spongy marrow from the bone 
makes up bone ligaments. Tumors arising from bone cancer 
begin in normally functioning cells. Cancer of the bone 
often manifests as a tumor in the bone [2]. Over time, the 
tumor expands and might potentially metastasize. It has the 
potential to weaken bones by destroying their tissue. 
Multiple tests are used by the doctor to diagnose cancer. In 
order to identify bone cancer in humans, X-ray imaging 
diagnostics is employed. The rates of X-ray absorption by 
healthy bone and malignant bone are distinct [11].  
 
The ability to see the shape and function of human organs 
through bio-medical imaging makes them a powerful 
diagnostic tool. Medical images are a one-of-a-kind 
resource for tracking the efficacy of treatment. In order to 
identify illness or contaminated tissue, our bodies use a 
range of diagnostic imaging methods. Cancer kills more 
people than any other disease, regardless of gender. There is 
hope for a complete cure for cancer if the disease can be 
detected early. There is a need for early detection tools for 
cancer nodules because cancer of the bones is brought about 
by the uncontrolled proliferation of bone structures. 
Metastatic disease occurs when the growth goes beyond the 
bone as well as may spread to other organs. Bone is a 
common site for the development of carcinomas, which are 
cancers that originate in epithelial cells [3]. 
 
2023 9th International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems (ICSSS) | 979-8-3503-8420-8/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICSSS58085.2023.10407146
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO PIAUI. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 16:31:11 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
                                                         2023 9th International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems (ICSSS) 
 
Various machine learning methods used to medical 
services based on Ultrasound, MRI, CT, histology an d 
microscopic pictures, in which all are parts of the  
biomedical imaging modalities. Biomedical imaging 
focuses on a variety of organs, including the liver , brain, 
prostate, lungs, and to investigate genetic correla tions. An 
outstanding resource for industrial scientists, med ical 
imaging researchers, clinicians, and students is the coupling 
of medical imaging with machine learning [4]. Malig nant 
cells multiply uncontrollably and metastasize (spre ad) to 
other organs in the body at a fast pace. Cancer can  develop 
from a number of different sources, some of which c an be 
avoided while others cannot. It is possible to avoi d risk 
factors including smoking, high UV radiation exposure, and 
alcohol consumption. Genetic factors, however, cann ot be 
changed [12]. Both hereditary and environmental variables, 
such as a person's lifestyle choices (such as smoki ng) 
contribute to these genetic factors. Furthermore, a mong the 
immutable variables, age stands out the most. The following 
figure Fig.1 shows the MRI scan of tumor-ridden bone. 
 
 
Fig.1 MRI Scan of Tumor-Ridden Bone 
 
An unusual symptom of bone cancer, which is 
extremely rare, is localized swelling or pain in th e bone. 
The uncontrolled growth of aberrant cells in the bo ne, 
which can then metastasize to other organs, is the hallmark 
of bone cancer [5]. We anticipate a 3900% rise in n ew 
instances of bone cancer in 2022, along with 2100 
fatalities. Most cases of bone cancer are seen in individuals 
less than 20 years old. Common modalities utilized in 
medical imaging include radiography, X-ray, CT scan s, 
MRI, ultrasound, phototherapy, as well as positron 
emission tomography.  
 
In addition to being easily removed surgically, the  
majority of benign tumors do not recur. The nuclei of 
malignant tumors are bigger than those of a benign tumor. 
Sarcomas, the medical name for bone cancer, can sta rt in 
a variety of tissues throughout the body, including fibrous 
tissue, bones, blood vessels, and muscles. Cancers such as 
chondrosarcoma, osteosarcoma, pleomorphic sarcoma, 
ewings sarcoma, and fibro sarcoma are quite prevale nt. 
Bone cancer is characterized by the development of 
tumors in the bone, which in turn hinders bone mobi lity 
and growth. The growth of an enchondroma, benign bo ne 
tumors, begins in the cartilage. 
II.  RELATED STUDY  
 
Cancer strikes individuals of any age and always ta kes 
their lives. More than one-third of the population will be 
diagnosed with cancer at some point in their lifeti mes [6]. 
The main goal is to pinpoint the affected region in the bone 
tract, that is, the aberrant growth and illness sta ge, by 
analyzing diagnostic medical imaging techniques 
including X-ray, CT, and PET scans. Due to the larg e 
number of slice per pixel as well as noise, the sca nned 
visuals might not have a good resolution. To fix th is, the 
photos must be pre-processed using a median filter to 
remove the noise. We will use a genetic technique t o 
analyze specific features in the pre-processed pict ure, and 
then we will use C NN to recover them. In order to assist 
the doctor decides what kind of treatment to prescr ibe, a 
CNN classifier is used to classify and record the a cquired 
images according to the patient's disease stage [6]. Results 
from using the proposed approach show that bone can cer 
is more often detected at an early stage [6]. 
 
Research in the medical field has benefited from the use 
of artificial intelligence [7]. Cancer detection an d 
prognosis apps have been developed by academics in 
response to the accessibility of open-source health care 
information. When faced with such difficult illness es, 
models based on machine learning and deep learning offer 
a dependable, quick, and effective solution [7]. From 2009 
to 2021, papers were chosen from the Web of Science s, 
EBSCO, as well as EMBASE databases using PRISMA 
standards. We conducted a thorough search and inclu ded 
all research publications that used AI-based learni ng 
methods for cancer prediction in our study. The use of both 
traditional machine learning as well as deep learni ng-
based classifications for cancer prediction has res ulted in 
185 publications that are deemed influential. Predi ction 
rate, accuracy, specificity, sensitivity, detection rate,  dice 
score, precision, area undercover, recall, as well as F1-
score were some of the metrics used in the survey's  
comparisons, which also discussed the work of other  
researchers and pointed out the gaps in the current  
literature. We looked at potential answers to five different 
probes. Unfortunately, cancer death rates have not 
decreased despite the success of several methods 
suggested in the literature for making predictions.  
Accordingly, the difficulties in cancer prognosis 
necessitate greater study [7]. 
 
It is possible that the oversimplification of the 
proportional hazard model, which assumes that the r esult 
is a linear combination of factors, makes it unsuit able for 
predicting the outcome of cancer patients [8]. This  model 
is frequently employed to assess prognostic variabl es in 
cancer patients' survival rates. We implemented and  
validated a deep learning-based survival prediction  
approach in oral squamous cell carcinoma patients i n this 
retrospective study [8]. The study included 255 pat ients 
who were eligible for analysis and had surgery in o ur 
department between 2000 and 2017. An analysis was 
conducted to compare DeepSurv, an algorithm for survival 
prediction based on deep learning, with RSF and CPH, two 
other popular models. With a c-index of 0.810 in th e 
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO PIAUI. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 16:31:11 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
                                                         2023 9th International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems (ICSSS) 
 
training set and 0.781 in the testing set, DeepSurv  
outperformed the other two models, RSF (0.770/0.764 ) 
and CPH (0.756/0.694). With each new feature, 
DeepSurv's performance got better. As a result, sur vival 
prediction powered by deep learning has the potenti al to 
enhance prediction accuracy and direct physicians towards 
treatment options that enhance survival while avoid ing 
therapies that aren't essential [8]. 
 
One form of cancer, known as bone marrow cancer, 
grows in the bone marrow's stem cells, which are in charge 
of making blood [9]. Multiple myeloma (MM) and acut e 
myeloid leukaemia (AML) are two examples of cancers  
that can impact the bone marrow. Traditional method s 
required a highly trained individual to complete th e task 
manually, which added significant time to the proce ss. 
Consequently, a more precise method of diagnosis is  
necessary for the provision of effective care. By enhancing 
a one-of-a-kind method—classification and 
segmentation—the proposed study has made it possible to 
detect more complex diseases. Despite efforts to im prove 
cancer cell identification accuracy and reduce fals e alarm 
rates, the study's results still lean towards the b ad end of 
the outcome spectrum, say the researchers. Adaptive  
multi-objective CAT algorithms, hyper parameter settings, 
and deep convolutional neural networks are all part  of the 
hybrid strategy that this research proposes. You mu st use 
cell pictures that have already been processed in o rder to 
train the proposed model [9]. Using the proposed model as 
a basis, an Optimized Convolutional Neural Network is 
trained to identify the specific kind of bone tumor s. After 
a comprehensive analysis of the SN-AM datasets, man y 
presentation metrics were developed and evaluated, 
including specificity, accuracy (recall), and F1-sc ore. 
Researchers found that their overall accuracy for 
predicting various forms of cancer was 99.45 percen t. 
When compared to other learning models, the suggest ed 
model was far superior at distinguishing between different 
types of cancer cells [9]. 
 
While there is no need for a supplementary tool for bone 
cancer detection, early detection is the key to sav ing lives 
[10]. Computerized Tomography and Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging imagery show cellular heterogenei ty, 
making it difficult for pathologists to quickly identify bone 
cancer. Here, several image processing methods can aid 
physicians in intelligently distinguishing cancerou s from 
non-cancerous samples. When it comes to picture 
categorization, Deep Learning is head and shoulders above 
the competition among data mining and image process ing 
methods. Popular Deep Learning systems like ResNet,  
AlexNet, VGG-16, and Inception-Net still have significant 
flaws, such as the fact that their upper-level laye rs mix 
information from lower-level layers and build resul ts 
irrespective of the spatial relations and order of the picture 
features. On top of that, when it comes to bone can cer 
categorization, it shows reduced accuracy with smal ler 
datasets. Because there is a dearth of actual bone cancer 
data, this study seeks to accurately categorize the  disease 
using magnetic resonance imaging and computed 
tomography scans using little training data [10]. A s a 
result, we offer a method that accomplishes the study goal 
by integrating with Capsule Network. When compared to 
previous Deep Learning approaches, the suggested 
framework offers superior horizontal accuracy (95.2 6 
percentage points) in diagnosing bone cancer, according to 
both qualitative and quantitative analyses [10]. 
 
III.  METHODOLOGY 
 
Data preparation, feature extraction, training, as well as 
evaluation are the four stages that make up the study plan. 
One step in the procedure involves filtering and 
segmenting the input b one MRI picture. The next st ep is 
to utilize machine learning classifiers to forecast  the 
category of the bone condition based on the characteristics 
retrieved from the segmented picture, which are statistical 
texture-based aspects of illnesses. The suggested 
extraction and classification technique's architect ure is 
shown in the following figure Fig.2.  
 
 
 
Fig.2 Proposed Architecture 
 
Expertise is necessary for the diagnosis of bone cancer. 
Due to the human element involved, diagnosing bone 
cancer can be a time-consuming and error-prone proc ess. 
It appears that the sole factor increasing the like lihood of 
survival for cancer patients is early identificatio n. Using 
an existing machine learning technique called Suppo rt 
Vector Machine to detect tumors and categorize canc er, 
this research discusses a system termed Elevated Learning 
based Bone Cancer Prediction (ELBCP). 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO PIAUI. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 16:31:11 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
                                                         2023 9th International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems (ICSSS) 
 
The following figure Fig.3 shows the flow diagram o f 
the suggested technique. An X-ray picture is sent i nto the 
system. A quick and inexpensive X-ray picture diagn osis 
is possible. 
 
 
 
Fig.3 System Flow Diagram of Suggested Technique 
 
(i) Preprocessing: Using a 3 × 3 median filter, the noise 
in the X-ray picture is eliminated. Image quality i s poor. 
Consequently, the image gets sharpened in order to make it 
more intense. 
 
(ii) Image Segmentation: After the image has undergone 
preprocessing, segmentation is used to identify objects in the 
image. The reliability of the segmentation approach  is 
determined by the final accuracy rate. This method for 
identifying the object of concern is thus both reas onable and 
effective. Using the segmentation approach, the ima ge is 
divided into pixel sets in order to extract informa tion about 
the object of interest.  
 
(iii) Feature Extraction: When describing the 
characteristics of a texture, a texture descriptor is quite 
standard. Contrast, correlation, energy, as well as  
homogeneity are the four texture features that we h ave 
computed from the dark level estimates of the broken image. 
By preserving the information in the original data,  a feature 
extraction procedure converts the input data to num erical 
features.  
 
Improvements in cancer detection and prognosis have  
resulted from the creation of ML models. Noise is c ommon 
in medical imaging and can impact image post-proces sing. 
Consequently, it seems that the denoising of the input images 
is the first as well as most important step in pre- processing 
input images. Because losing too much noise could m ask 
crucial features, it's critical to be precise when estimating the 
quantity of noise to remove. However, unintended 
consequences may emerge from attempting to eliminat e a 
negligible amount of noise. Medical imaging isn't t he only 
area that uses ML. Computer vision, data mining, an d image 
processing all rely on feature extraction. Building  a reliable 
bone cancer detection models that enhances the diag nostic 
process requires better feature extraction efficien cy coupled 
with increased classification accuracy. To pick 
characteristics, this system employs mutual informa tion 
statistics, a method not previously employed by bon e cancer 
detection systems.  
IV RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
 
A methodology that is adapted from machine learning is 
utilized by the Elevated Learning based Bone Cancer  
Prediction (ELBCP) method in order to tackle the 
classification challenge. The approach generates 
classification output labels by making use of data points 
that are adjacent to one another. ELBCP is a simpli stic 
method that is used in the fields of statistical estimation and 
pattern recognition. It maintains a record of all p ossible 
cases of a class and makes an effort to classify ne w 
examples by making use of the functions of the dist ance, 
which is a measure of similarity. If k is equal to one, the 
case is automatically allocated to the class that received the 
most votes from its neighbors. If k is not equal to  one, 
classification is easy since the class is decided by the most 
popular among the pixels that are closest to the ca se as a 
function of distance. Here is a list of the steps that make up 
the recommended algorithm: 
 
• Determine the pairs of neighboring pixels and the 
index that corresponds to them, X. 
• The next step is to determine the distance between the 
picture that was requested and the image that was used 
as a training sample. 
• Those who are geographically closest to you have 
gathered and evaluated it based on the shortest 
distance. 
• Next adjacent pixel was the source of class Y, whic h 
we gathered. 
• In  order to accommodate the requested number of 
prediction classes for the query picture, the neare st 
neighbor approach has been utilized for the majorit y 
of the process. 
 
Although it has been claimed that machine learning has 
been successful in cancer imaging, there are still a number 
of obstacles and constraints that need to be solved before it 
can be used in c linical settings. A significant am ount of 
data is being generated by care providers as a resu lt of the 
growing demand for magnetic resonance imaging and 
computed tomography. Through the implementation of 
several standards and the Image preservation and 
interacting framework it has been possible to acces s and 
retrieve data in a timely manner. Data-hungry metho ds, 
such as deep neural networks, require a substantial quantity 
of data in order to function properly. The most sig nificant 
obstacle that we have when attempting to diagnose b one 
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO PIAUI. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 16:31:11 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
                                                         2023 9th International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems (ICSSS) 
 
cancer using machine learning is figuring out how to make 
the most effective use of the structure of medical pictures 
and the particular properties of medical data while  we are 
training and constructing our model. In the field o f 
medicine, standardized benchmarking is of utmost 
significance, particularly with regard to modalitie s and 
anatomic locations. Further, imaging does not serve  as a 
standalone method for determining the severity of i llness. 
When it comes to imaging, the molecular profile of cancer 
additionally serves a significant part in the diagn ostic 
process. The potential and capability of machine le arning 
are growing on a daily basis, but there is still so me 
direction that has to be taken when it comes of hea lthcare 
practice. Since machine learning techniques are eff ective 
for the analysis of large amounts of complicated biological 
data, they may be utilized for the purpose of findi ng 
solutions to problems in the field of bioinformatic s. In the 
field of medical image analysis, there is a need fo r 
additional progress in terms of the accuracy and predictive 
potential of machine learning approaches. Calculati ng the 
size, location, and level of bone cancer is possible with the 
use of neural networks that have undergone further 
development. 
 
The following figure, Fig-4 and Fig-5 represents th e 
input image and the pre-processing image stages of the 
proposed approach, both these functions are portray ed in 
conventional SVM logic also for comparison percepti on. 
The entire results of these proposed and convention al 
schemes are accumulated by using MATLAB image 
processing tool. 
 
 
 
Fig.4 Input Image 
 
    
         (a)                (b) 
 
Fig.5 Pre-Processing (a) ELBCP and (b) SVM 
 
The following figure, Fig-6 represents the image 
convolution stage results of the proposed ELBCP and  
conventional SVM approach. 
 
      
         (a)                (b) 
 
Fig.6 Image Convolution (a) ELBCP and (b) SVM 
 
The following figure, Fig-7 (a) and Fig-8 (b) represents 
the image segmentation stages of the proposed ELBCP  
and conventional SVM approach. 
 
      
         (a)                (b) 
 
Fig-7 Image Segmentation (a) ELBCP and (b) SVM 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO PIAUI. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 16:31:11 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
                                                         2023 9th International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems (ICSSS) 
 
The following figure, Fig-8 represents the predicti on 
accuracy of the proposed ELBCP and conventional 
SVM approach, in which the same is illustrated over the 
following table, Table-1 in descriptive manner. 
 
TABLE 1 PREDICTION ACCURACY 
 
Testing Count SVM (%) ELBCP (%) 
5 86.34 96.15 
7 86.41 96.32 
9 86.11 96.14 
12 86.14 96.27 
15 85.32 96.41 
17 85.96 96.40 
18 85.53 96.45 
21 85.39 96.49 
23 85.24 96.54 
25 85.09 96.59 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Prediction Accuracy 
 
V CONCLUSION  
 
The proposed method integrates feature extraction with 
a classification model to differentiate between normal and 
cancerous bones. Successful detection of bone tumou rs 
has been achieved using the feature extraction and 
classification approach proposed here. The presence  or 
absence of a malignancy in the input MRI can be 
ascertained using this method once a tumour has bee n 
identified and classified as benign or malignant. B one 
cancer develops from unchecked cell growth in bone,  
which harms good bone tissue and can spread to othe r 
organs. The ability to recognize potential lesion t issue is 
crucial for pathologists to diagnose cancer. You ma y 
tweak the system's speed even further by changing o ther 
texture characteristics. In conclusion, the proposed method 
successfully differentiates between cancerous and healthy 
bone pictures. Our algorithm is less effective when  
presented with pictures of malignant bones compared  to 
those of healthy bones. As a result, it may offer 
instantaneous second opinions to clinicians. In ord er to 
evaluate the model's performance more thoroughly, w e 
plan to create a large dataset in the future. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Ashish Sharma, Dhirendra P. Yadav, et al., "Bon e Cancer 
Detection Using Feature Extraction Based Machine Le arning 
Model", Comput Math Methods Med, doi: 10.1155/2021/7433186, 
2021. 
[2]  G. S et al, "Multiple Class Breast Cancer Dete ction Method Based 
on Deep Learning and MIRRCNN Model," 2 (ICICT), Nep al, 
2022, pp. 981-987, doi: 10.1109/ICICT54344.2022.9850707. 
[3]  Abdelaal, Magdy Tobely, et al., "Bone Cancer D etection Using 
Particle Swarm Extreme Learning Machine Neural Netw orks", 
Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics, DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1166/jmihi.2019.2586, 2019. 
[4]  S. G et al "Automated Breast Cancer Classifica tion based on  
Modified Deep learning Convolutional Neural Network following 
Dual Segmentation," (ICESC), Coimbatore, India, 2022, pp. 1562-
1569, doi: 10.1109/ICESC54411.2022.9885299. 
[5]  Lianghui Zhu, Huijuan Shi, et al., "An accurat e prediction of the 
origin for bone metastatic cancer using deep learni ng on digital 
pathological images", International Congress on Peer Review and 
Scientific Publication, 
DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ebiom.2022.104426, 2022. 
[6]  Sivakumar D, Manoj Krishna Hegde, et al., "BON E CANCER  
DETECTION USING MACHINE LEARNING", International 
Research Journal of Engineering and Technology, 2021. 
[7]  Yogesh Kumar, Surbhi Gupta, et al., "A Systema tic Review of 
Artificial Intelligence Techniques in Cancer Predic tion and 
Diagnosis", Arch Computat Methods Eng, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11831-021-09648-w, 2021. 
[8]  Dong Wook Kim, Sanghoon Lee, et al., "Deep lea rning-based 
survival prediction of oral cancer patients", Scien tific Reports, 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-43372-7, 2019. 
[9]  Manjula Devi Ramasamy, Rajesh Kumar Dhanaraj, et al., "An 
improved deep convolutionary neural network for bon e marrow 
cancer detection using image processing", Informatics in Medicine 
Unlocked, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.imu.2023.101233, 2023. 
[10]  Md Abid Hassan, Md Hasibul Hasan, et al., "An  Expedition to 
Intelligent Diagnosis of Bone Cancer and It's Direc tion from 
Capsule Network", Proceedings of the 2nd Internatio nal 
Conference on Computing Advancements, 
https://doi.org/10.1145/3542954.3542981, 2022. 
[11]  G. Suganeshwari, R. Balakumar, et al., "DTBV:  A Deep Transfer-
Based Bone Cancer Diagnosis System Using VGG16 Feat ure 
Extraction", Diagnostics, doi: 10.3390/diagnostics1 3040757, 
2023. 
[12]  Mengjie Fang, Zipei Wang, et al., "Predicting  origin for bone  
metastatic cancer using deep learning-based patholo gy", 
International Congress on Peer Review and Scientific Publication, 
DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ebiom.2023.104449, 2023. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO PIAUI. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 16:31:11 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
